---
layout: post
title: git
lang: en
revealjs-url: ''  # for absolute path to lib/ and css/ folders use '/'
theme: black
transition: fade  # none/fade/slide/convex/concave/zoom
center: false
---

# Git

## The coolest tool on the planet

---

# GitHub

- `GitHub` is not `git`
- One of many web interfaces to a `git` repo
- It's a corporation, a website
  - Efficient, open, generous, socially responsible, sustainable company
  - For-Profit

- Most pro-social company on the planet?

---

# GitHub Niceness 

## Hosts static websites for free

- no database
- no python
- nothing `persistent`

---

# GitHub Niceness 

## Renders popular file formats natively

  - iPython notebooks 
  - Markdown
  - JPG, PNG
  - not PDF?

---

# GitHub Niceness 

## Pull Requests!

- E-mail `diff` to team and have them `patch` ?!!! 
- **No Longer!!**: Use GitHub API or website
- Comment on changes within code!
- Best/only way to do *code review*

---

# "Back Story"

- Linus dispute with `hg` (Mercurial) and bitbucket (Atlassian)

- BitBucket inching up his "subscription" plan
- Wouldn't implement important security features
- Linux sabatouers/plants from Microsoft?

---

# "Moral" of the Story

- Linux team put minds together and built `git` in a week
- Built GitHub in a few months
- All Linux development happens on git
- Google just shut down Google Code in favor of GitHub
- Focussed on efficiency for the user
- Helpful prompts when something goes wrong
- Atlassian is tightly aligned with Microsoft and raking it in

---

# Support GitHub Ecosystem

If you need to keep something private, pay GitHub for it.

Integrate it with travis, codeship, etc

---

# Integrations

- Thousands of 3rd party apps integrate with it
- You can deploy a complex application just by pushing to GitHub

---

# Tutorials

- [Official `git` book](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Basics-Getting-a-Git-Repository)
- [An in-your-face introduction](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/) is pretty good.
- [A humble, casual tutorial](https://blog.interlinked.org/tutorials/git.html)

---

# Workflow


Developers have a workflow like factory workers.

Your work must integrate with parts from others.

Your workflow is how you "play nice" with others.

You don't need to worry about this.

[hack-university](http://github.com/hackoregon/hack-university-machine-learning) is your playground to learn in.

---

# Workflow

- Flexibile tools, means lots of "workflow" options
- how you
  - `branch`
  - `pull`
  - `merge`
  - `push`
  - Deploy

