# Bots

A bot is a computer service or process that runs perpetually (or at least a long time) processing inputs and outputs, usually to achieve an objective.

## Chat(ter) Bots

A lot of people dislike chatter bots.  
Most of the messages we receive from bots are spam.  
Remind yourself of this as you're designing your bot.  
Make sure you give something to your user
  - information
  - entertainment (humor)
  - flattery
  - listening (a bent ear)
    - actually record what your bot receeves and do something with it later
  - computation (reminders)
  - grunt work
    - airline reservation
    - order takeout

Bots have been rebranded from "phone trees" to ["Magics"](https://getmagicnow.com/)

## Channels


### SMS

SMS bots were some of the first mobile chat bots

Now they're everywhere.

- [Portland TriMet bus stop status at 27299](https://trimet.org/transittracker/bytext.htm)
- [*Magic*](https://getmagicnow.com/) is popular on college campuses
- [PlanetTran](https://secure.planettran.com/public/home)
- [Lyft](http://www.mediapost.com/publications/article/223341/lyft-hit-with-sms-spam-lawsuit-for-invite-friends.html)
- Car2Go ?

## Phone (Voice, Audio)

- ["TellMe" at 1-800-TELLMEMORE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tellme_Networks) had a sing-songy, human intro and voice that successfully vanquished the phone-tree stigma
  - voice recognition
  - voice response (with only the hint of a pleasant "boop-beep")
  - but they went bust in the dot-com bubble
- Mobile Phone Service Providers
    - often just phone trees
- Even credit card companies and banks
  - "agents" are trusted with CCNs SSNs more than humans

## NLP

We haven't talked much about NLP, so I'll just mention a few terms in case you come across them.

## Discourse

Discourse is saying something. Generational Linguistics is the study of the ways that discourse can be computed, (generated by a computer).

- Monologue is when one "agent" talks
  - Shakespeare Soliloquy
  - Much of my lectures (when you don't call me out on it)
  - log files
  - books
  - news articles
    - sports
    - finance
    - why do you think these are popular for bots?
- Dialogue is when 2 people take turns talking
- HCI, HCD, or *conversational* agent (phone tree)
  - human-computer dialog
  - human-computer

## Regular Expressions

Think about all the if-thens it would take to process the following statement with a conventional computer program. Even just to separate and look up each word and tag it with a POS (part of speech).




Also called "rational" expressions or a "regular grammar".

- Fancy word for an "if-then" tree that has only one answer yes or no
- Same as a Regular Expression
  - "regex" and "regexp" are NOT Regular Expressions
    - they add lookahead, lookbehind, and other "irregular" features
  - python `re` builtin

Extremely powerful. They power Google Now, etc. Why?

- There are a lot of math properties that can be proven about them
- There's an "algebra" for simplifiying and transforming them
  - for [turning them into code](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thompson%27s_construction)
    - like finita automata
      - [NFA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nondeterministic_finite_automaton)
        - multiple options for each "if" branch
      - [DFA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Deterministic_finite_automaton)
    - surprisingly a NFA can be turned into a complicated DFA
 
## Examples

Machine Learning technology powers bots that are often so sophisticated they perform as well as humans at many dialog tasks.

  - LIZA: psychotherapist bot
  - "Magic.io"

MMORPG games and FPS games sometimes employ dialog engines to interact with players and "coach" them on community values, coerce people into behaving nicely. Often all it takes is a warning or reduction in score, or public shaming.

## Crawler

Crawlers are indexing the web perpetually and each bot has its own objectives. Often it is just to "index" URLs to allow subsequent revisiting for search query response.

In other cases crawlers are used to behave online like humans. They may be sussing out spammy links posted to forums.

Crawlers are often indexing you local hard drive to help you find files or even suggest actions, like archiving, cleaning up, etc. Your computer is watching, helping all the time.

### Examples

- "Dan"Search.
- WbSrch.com
- bitcrawl
- Bing.com
- DuckDuckGo.com
- Google web indexer


